I spoke to Jehovah
just before I stepped out here.
And I asked him:
“Please don’t abandon me.
If I’ve ever needed you, I need you now.”
Why?
Well, it’s because of all
of these beautiful sheep
that I have the privilege
to speak to for 19 minutes.
So I want to make
the most of these 19 minutes,
because sometimes
we have to make adjustments.
Now, you may have heard of a few adjustments
in our understanding of things already today.
And there could be more adjustments
that will have to be made later on.
Now, you may recall that we
used to think a certain way
some ten years ago
about the following matter.
We felt that some of the anointed
would survive Armageddon
and move right on into the Paradise
with the other sheep
and maybe stay there for a given time
and then be brought to life in heaven.
But as we understand it,
some things Jehovah
will not permit us to see,
even though we read over it many, many times.
We can’t see it until Jehovah
puts the light on it.
And what I’m about to reveal to you today,
Jehovah is behind it
—not the Governing Body,
not any human here on the earth,
but Jehovah God.
He helps us to see things.
Now, you may recall
Matthew chapter 24
verses 29-31.
You’ve read it many times; I have too.
But notice what it says,
even though we felt
a little differently
earlier on when we read it
—verse 29:
“Immediately after the tribulation
of those days
“[now remember this,
“immediately
after the tribulation of those days],
“the sun will be darkened,
and the moon will not give its light,
“and the stars will fall from heaven,
“and the powers
of the heavens will be shaken.
“Then the sign of the Son of man
will appear in heaven,
“and all the tribes of the earth
“will beat themselves in grief,
“and they will see the Son of man
coming on the clouds of heaven
“with power and great glory.
“And he will send out his angels
“with a great trumpet sound,
“[now note the following]
“and they will gather his chosen ones
“together from the four winds,
“from one extremity of the heavens
to the other extremity.”
Now, do you see the point?
We understand now
that all of Christ’s anointed brothers
will be in heaven with him
before Armageddon starts.
That’s the understanding that we have today.
And this is exciting!
We think so because of a few reasons,
and here are a few.
A few of the other sheep
have expressed a concern on this subject.
They have said: “Does this
“new understanding mean
“that we will lose
all the anointed Christians,
“including the Governing Body
“just when we need them
“the most?
“Will we feel abandoned
in our time of need?”
Well, let me reassure you
that you will not be abandoned.
And that’s what this talk is all about.
You need not think that you will be abandoned
because of the anointed
not being in your midst any longer.
So we’re going to discuss three questions.
And here they are
if you’re writing things down.
Number one:
What will not happen
when the last of the anointed
leaves the earthly scene?
And number two:
How do we know
that such things will not happen?
What will happen?
So we’re going to look at these questions.
First, then, what will not happen?
Well, I’d like to tell you very briefly
two sad stories
to illustrate what will not happen.
Now here is sad story number one:
Do you remember Jehoiada?
He was a faithful high priest,
one of the best.
When he died, he was given an unusual honor.
He was buried with the kings.
During his life,
he protected the young King Jehoash
and helped him to be a good king
who stayed faithful to Jehovah.
But when old Jehoiada died,
the young king soon went bad.
He listened to wicked princes,
and he turned away from Jehovah.
That’s sad story number one.
On its heels, we have sad story number two:
You remember
that the apostle John took great joy
in his spiritual children.
He was a good influence on them.
He helped many Christians to remain faithful.
But what happened when John died?
Well, he was
the sole surviving apostle,
the last restraint against apostasy.
So after John passed off the scene,
it was not long
before something happened.
What was it?
What happened when John died?
Well, the last restraint against apostasy
—he was the last restraint,
and now he’s gone.
So after John passed off this earthly scene,
it was not long before apostasy
spread like wildfire.
And within a few decades,
the Christian congregation
went off into captivity
to Babylon the Great
—the world empire of false religion.
Now, why mention
those sad stories?
Now, here’s the reason:
Some may wonder
(in our midst today
in the Christian congregation):
‘What’s going to happen when all the anointed
‘are taken to heaven?
‘Will the great crowd be left
‘in the lurch?
‘Will they
‘stray into some kind of trouble,
maybe even apostasy?’
Well, what do you think?
Have you heard any signs of that already?
Well, here’s the answer: No.
They’re not going to stray into apostasy
—absolutely not.
Those Bible accounts actually
teach us what will not happen.
And that brings us to the second question:
How do we know
that such things will not happen?
The answer has a lot to do
with when we live.
We do not live in ancient Israel.
I don’t see anyone dressed like
an Israelite.
None of you brothers wear skirts.
Oh, there’s one!
No, there’s none.
So no,
we don’t live in ancient Israel.
Well, now you may wonder,
‘Why does that matter?’
Because that nation was heading
for trouble from its early days.
At Deuteronomy 31:29,
Moses uttered
this inspired prophecy
about those rebellious people.
This is how it reads:
“I well know that after my death
“you will surely act wickedly
“and turn aside from the way
about which I have commanded you.”
Now, Moses’ words came true
many times, not just once.
Finally, Jehovah had to cast off
those wicked people.
So when King Jehoash went bad,
he was just acting like many other
kings of Judah and Israel.
Today things are
different among God’s people.
Keep in mind, we do not live at the end
of the first century C.E.
Now, why does that matter?
Remember in Matthew 13
in his illustration
of the wheat and the weeds,
Jesus had foretold
that a great apostasy would take place.
In 2 Thessalonians chapter 2,
Paul confirmed that Jesus’ prophecy
was already beginning
to come true in the first century.
Peter and John verified
the same in their writings.
In the second century C.E.,
the Christian congregation
was corrupted and went off
into spiritual captivity
to Babylon the Great.
So Jesus’ inspired prophecy
was fulfilled; it came true.
However, today, things are very different
among God’s people—much different.
At what time are we living?
Well, we said, “Not back then.”
Well, you know the answer to that.
We’re blessed to be living
in a special time period.
And this began as far back as 1914.
It’s more than just “the last days”
of this old system of things.
Well, why is that?
Notice what the Bible says—Acts 3:21.
It says it’s also called
“the times of restoration of all things.”
Now, let the word “restoration”
linger in your mind.
Why does that matter?
We’re living in “the times
of restoration of all things”
because pure worship has been restored.
We’re bathing in it.
And the worship of Jehovah will never
be corrupted ever  again
for all eternity.
Now that is something to swallow
that’s tasty indeed.
Now let’s read Isaiah 54:17 together.
Jehovah made this long-range prophecy
through Isaiah.
Now, this is what it says:
“‘No weapon formed against you
will have any success,
“‘and you will condemn
any tongue that rises up
“‘against you in the judgment.
“‘This is the heritage
“‘of the servants of Jehovah,
“and their righteousness is from me,’
declares Jehovah.”
Now, think about that, please.
“No weapon
“formed against you
will have any success.”
The prophecy says that this is
our “heritage.”
Those inspired words are being fulfilled
now—today.
Nothing can take that away,
not even “the god of this system things,”
Satan himself.
Now, remember our second question:
How do we know
that when the anointed are taken to heaven,
the great crowd
won’t drift away into trouble?
How do we know
that they won’t rebel
the way that Jehoash did
when Jehoiada died
or drift off into apostasy
the way the second-century Christians did
after the last of the apostles,
John, died off?
Well, we know
it’s just a matter of turning the page.
And the answer is
because we do not live in ancient Israel
and we do not live
in the second century C.E.
We live in a wonderful time
of—what?—
restoration
when Jehovah has guaranteed us
that ‘no weapon formed
against us will succeed.’
Now, our third question:
What will happen when the anointed
are taken to heaven?
Well, try to imagine that time.
I’ll give you a second.
It’s over.
The great tribulation is underway.
Babylon the Great, the world empire
of false religion, is destroyed first.
Think of it!
Events that God’s organization
has prepared us for over many decades
are happening before our eyes.
Then comes something else
we have been told to expect.
What’s that?
Some time during the great tribulation
and before the war of Armageddon,
the remaining ones of Christ’s anointed
are taken to heaven.
What do you think will happen next?
Will the great crowd wander
about lost and confused
like sheep without a shepherd?
Of course not.
Remember, Jesus is the Shepherd.
He will never fail to do his job.
Keep in mind that the anointed
are not the head of our organization.
Jesus is.
And we hope all parents today
raising children
will teach them that fact.
With Jehovah’s own Son in charge,
Christ’s followers here on earth
will have nothing to fear.
Of course, we do not know every detail
about how Christ will lead
his people at that time.
But there are some Bible examples
that may reassure us.
For instance, when Moses died
before Israel entered the Promised Land,
what happened to God’s people?
Well, without that faithful man,
were they left in the lurch?
The answer is no, not at all.
As long as they were Jehovah’s people,
Jehovah provided for them.
And he provided richly for them.
They had an abundance.
Before Moses died,
Jehovah told him to commission Joshua
to lead the people.
Moses had been training Joshua for decades.
In addition, there were many
other capable men taking the lead
—‘chiefs of thousands, hundreds,
fifties, and even tens.’
God’s people were well cared for.
Thank God for Moses and Joshua.
Another example is that of Elijah.
He had been taking the lead in pure worship
among the Israelites for decades.
But the time came for Jehovah to transfer him
to a different assignment
down south in Judah.
Were faithful people in the ten-tribe kingdom
of Israel left in the lurch?
Far from it.
Elijah had been training
Elisha for years.
Then there were also
“the sons of the prophets”
evidently organized into schools
of some kind; we don’t know.
So there were many faithful men
helping to lead God’s people.
Jehovah’s purpose kept advancing,
and he cared for his faithful people.
Now, with those examples in mind,
what do you think
will happen when the anointed
are taken to heaven?
Well, we don’t need to wonder.
Open your Bibles or iPads, and look
at Hebrews 13:5b.
It says: “For he has said:
‘I will never leave you,
and I will never abandon you.’”
That tells us the simple, reassuring truth
that Jehovah
will “never abandon” his faithful ones.
Like Moses and Elijah, faithful anointed ones
who take the lead today
understand the importance
of training others.
That’s ongoing.
The Governing Body has been training men
of the other sheep to take
the lead for many decades now.
We’re familiar with the many schools
to train elders and missionaries
and traveling overseers
and branch personnel.
In addition to that, the Governing Body
has personally been training helpers
to the various committees
of the Governing Body.
These faithful men are right now
carrying a very heavy load of responsibility.
Believe me,
as a member of the Governing Body,
I can say for the rest of us
that we need the helpers
that Jehovah has given us.
We pray for them every day.
And they’re well-prepared
to continue in this work,
caring for Christ’s sheep
under the direction of Jesus himself,
the head of the congregation.
Now, what is the point?
Simply this:
When the anointed are taken
to heaven near the very end
of the great tribulation
but before Armageddon,
there will be no interruption
of pure worship here on the earth.
Pure worship will keep right on going.
So thank
Jehovah for the leadership
of Jesus Christ.
None of God’s worshippers in heaven
or on earth will miss a beat.
Yes, there will be an attack
from Gog of Magog,
but it will not get very far.
It’s going to fail.
It will not stop the great crowd
from worshipping Jehovah
and looking to him to rescue them.
And what a Rescuer he will prove to be!
Now, how do we answer the third question?
Well, we partly know what will happen
to the great crowd when
the anointed are taken to heaven,
but that may still leave us wondering:
‘What about the anointed?
‘What will they do after they
depart the earthly scene?
We want to know.’
Well, the Bible answers that directly.
At Revelation chapter 17,
we are able to learn in verse 14
that the political elements of this world
will foolishly battle with the Lamb.
They will lose, of course.
The verse says: “The Lamb will conquer them.”
And who will help him?
The verse continues: “Also, those with him
who are called and chosen
and faithful will do so.”
Now, who are called, chosen, and faithful?
At that time, it will be
the resurrected anointed.
So when the anointed are called to heaven,
one of the first assignments is to fight.
Yay!
Now, that’s interesting.
Some of us were fighters
before we became true Christians.
Some even served
in various branches of the military
—didn’t we, Brother Morris?
Some were green berets
but not Brother Morris.
But then we became Christians.
We learned “the way of peace,”
and we let go of such warfare.
Figuratively speaking, we pulled the pin
on our last hand-grenade
and tossed it into the air,
killing no one or nothing
—just a loud kaboom.
But in heaven, we will serve along
with Christ and his holy angels,
waging the final war against God’s enemies.
So if you’ve ever thought
that you might feel left in the lurch
after the anointed are taken to heaven,
think of this:
On earth, none of us Christians
are allowed to fight.
Many of us anointed ones
are too old to fight,
even if we were allowed to.
But in heaven,
we will be mighty spirit creatures
fighting alongside
our Warrior-King Jesus Christ.
Believe me, we can and will do
you significantly more good in heaven
than we ever could as imperfect humans
here on this earth!
Well, I’m not done, but I should be.
As for the other sheep,
what will you need to do
during that climactic time?
Simply this: hide.
That’s right.
At Isaiah 26:20, he wrote:
“Enter your inner rooms,
“and shut your doors behind you.
“Hide yourself for a brief moment
until the wrath has passed by.”
It will be hide-and-seek.
You will hide,
and they will seek to find you,
but they will not.
Do you have anything to worry about?
You have nothing to worry about
—nothing at all—
because Jehovah will never
abandon you.
There is no justifiable reason
to worry about the future.
Just be there,
brothers and sisters, to enjoy it.
Remember, Jehovah loves you
and he will never abandon you.
Please believe it.
You will not be disappointed.